.TH "xpkg" "1" "29 June 2005" "X/Qt Server Project"
.SH NAME
xpkg \- Package cross build tool

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR xpkg " [" options... "] <" command "> <" deffile >

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B xpkg
is a small utility to corss build modules and create package 
file (such as ipkg).

.SH COMMANDS
You can specify following commands.

.TP
.B source
Extract source tarballs and apply patch.
.TP
.B build
Execute build.
.TP
.B install
Execute virtual installation.
.TP
.B pkg
Create package file.
.TP
.B install-pkg
Install compiled package file into local filesystem.
.TP
.B install-develpkg
Install development packages.
.TP
.B cleanup
Clean up all extracted source and object files.
.TP
.B World
Execute source, build, install, and pkg.
.TP
.B DevelWorld
Execute source, build, install, pkg, and install-develpkg.

.SH DEFINITION FILE

For
.B deffile
, specify one definition file which control xpkg.
Default filename is 'pkgdef'.

For detail of the definition file format, see
.B xpkg.def(8)
.

.SH TARGET

To specify build target, you can use TARGET environment variable or
-t option. For X/Qt server peoject, default target name is 'xqt'.

You can modify default value of the target with '$default_target'
in config.rb file.

.SH OUTPUT DIRECTORY

Usually, all downloaded tarballs and package files are stored into current
directory, but you can fix it with:

.RS
1) Environment variable 'XPKGTOP'.

2) $xpkgtop variable in configuration file.

3) Directory contains '_xpkgtop' file (any ancestor directory of current one.)
.RE

If you specify output directory, tarballs, packages and development packages
are stored in XPKG/distfiles, XPKG/packages and XPKG/develpkgs respectively.


.SH CONFIGRATION FILES

.SS PERSONAL CONFIGRATION FILES

You can use ~/.xpkg file as personal configuration file.
The sample file are /etc/xpkg/dot.xpkg.sample.

.SS COMMON CONFIGRATION FILES

Common configuration files are stored in /etc/xpkg/ direcotry.

.TP
.B config.rb
Xpkg global configuration file. For more info, see comments in the file.

.TP
.B config.def or config-[target].def
Common configuration files for all packages.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR xpkg-batch (1),
.BR xpkg-install (1),
.BR xpkg.def (5)
.nf
.UR http://xqt.sourceforge.jp/
.B http://xqt.sourceforge.jp/
.UE
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Takuya Murakami <tmurakam@mtd.biglobe.ne.jp>
.fi
