.TH "xpkg.def" "5" "29 June 2005" "X/Qt Server Project"
.SH NAME
.B pkgdef
\- xpkg definition file

.SH DESCRIPTION

xpkg definition file (default file name is 'pkgdef') contains
all information needed to build a package.

This file is a text file and looks like spec file of RPM.

.SH SECTIONS

The definition file contains multiple 'sections'.
Each sections are specified as

	%section_name

Header part of the definition files is treated as 'control' section.

Followings are typical section names.

.TP
.B %site
Specify base URLs to download source tarball.

.TP
.B %source
Specify source tarball name.

The tarballs are downloaded with %site URL.
You can also specify full URL.

To specify local file, start with 'local:'.

To specify patch file, end with ';patch=[n]'.
Value 'n' is passed to -n option of patch command.

.TP
.B %prep
Specify scripts after extract source tarballs.

.TP
.B %build
Specify build scripts, such as configure and make.

.TP
.B %install
Specify install scripts, such as 'make install'.
Note: install destination must be '%{destdir}'.

.TP
.B %files [sub_package_name]
File listing to be included in the package file.

.TP
.B %excludes [sub_package_name]
Exclude file patterns. Wild card can be used.

If the pattern include '/', the name is treated as relative path from %{destdir}.
If not, all files matches the pattern under %{destdir} are excluded.

.TP
.B %strip [sub_package_name]
File listing to be stripped.

.TP
.B %control [sub_package_name]
.TP
.B %preinst [sub_package_name]
.TP
.B %postinst [sub_package_name]
.TP
.B %postrm [sub_package_name]
.TP
.B %conffiles [sub_package_name]
control/preinst/postinst/postrm/conffiles files for IPKG.

.RS
.SS SUB PACKAGE

A pkgdef file can contains multiple sub packages.
To use sub packages, specify sub package name after section name.

.SS control section

The control section is required for each sub packages.

The format is same as IPKG control file.

If the name of the Package name ends with '-devel', this package
is treated as development package.

.RE

.SH SYMBOL DEFINITIONS

You can define 'symbols'.

.TP
.B %define name value
Define name as value.

You can refer the symbol with '%{name}'.

.SS PRE-DEFINED SYMBOLS

.TP
.B %{target}
Build target. Same as TARGET environment variable or -t option of xpkg.

.TP
.B %{destdir}
Virtual install directory.

.TP
.B %{configdir}
Configuration directory. Default value is '/etc/xpkg'.

.SS SYMBOLS SHOULD BE DEFINED IN EACH DEFINITION FILES

.TP
.B %{builddir}
Build directory. Usually directory name with extracted source.
If this is omitted, %{name}-%{ver} is used instead.

.SS SYMBOLS MUST BE DEFINED IN TARGET COMMON DEFINITION FILES

.TP
.B %{pkgtype}
Specify package type.
To use IPKG, specify "ipkg".

.TP
.B %{prefix}
Build prefix prefix, used with --prefix option of configure.

.TP
.B %{target_root}
The directory to install target binary (root file system).

.TP
.B %{target_prefix}
The directory of target development prefix.
All development packages are installed in this prefix.


.SS SYMBOLS SHOULD BE DEFINED IN TARGET COMMON DEFINITION FILES

.TP
.B %{arch}
Target architecture, used with --host option of configure.

.TP
.B %{ipkarch}
IPKG architecture used in Architecture: field in IPKG control file.

.TP
.B %{x_prefix}
Prefix directory for X11.

.TP
.B %{config_opts}
Basic configuration options for configure, includes
--host, --prefix, --libdir, --includedir.

.TP
.B %{x_opts}
X11 configuration options, includes
--x-includes, --x-libraries.

.TP
.B %{install_opts}
Option values with 'make install', includes
DESTDIR, prefix, libdir, bindir, includedir.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
.B %env name value
Specify environment variables to be used in compilation.

.SS PRE DEFINED ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
.B CC, LD, AR, AS, CXX, NM, RANLIB, STRIP
Specify cross build tools.

.TP
.B CC_FOR_BUILD
Specify host build tools.

.TP
.B CONFIG_SITE
Specify config.site for configure.
X/Qt project uses %{configdir}/config-xqt.site.

.TP
.B PKG_CONFIG_PATH
Default path for pkgconfig.

.SH CONDITIONAL COMPILATION

.BR %if , %elsif , %else , %endif
can be used.

You can use ruby equation in the condition.
If the target name appear in the condition, it is treated as true if 
it is same as current target name. For example, 

.RS
%if xqt
.br
A
.br
%endif
.RE

are same as following:

.RS
%if "%{target}" == "xqt"
.br
A
.br
%endif
.RE

.SH DEVELOPMENT PACKAGES

To create development packages:

.TP
.B 1) Same as normal packages
Create control, files sections as normal packages.
Note: package name must be end with '-devel'.

.TP
.B 2) Define develpkg
Specify  '%define develpkg yes' in definition file.
Control and files sections are created automatically.

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR xpkg (1),
.BR xpkg-install (1),
.nf
.UR http://xqt.sourceforge.jp/
.B http://xqt.sourceforge.jp/
.UE
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Takuya Murakami <tmurakma@mtd.biglobe.ne.jp>
.fi
